Project Setup & Git Initialization
Command	Detailed Explanation

mkdir <name>	Make Directory: Creates a new folder.
cd <name>	Change Directory: Steps inside the folder.
code .	Open VS Code: Launches the editor in this folder.
git init	Initialize: Starts the Git "brain" for the project.
git remote add origin <URL>	Link to GitHub: Connects local folder to online repo.
ni .gitignore	Filter File: Create this to list files Git should ignore.
git remote -v	Verify: Shows which GitHub link is connected.

The Daily Git Workflow (Solving U, M, A)
Command	Detailed Explanation

git status	Check: Tells you exactly which files are U, M, or A.
git add .	Stage: Solves U and M. Moves them into the A state.
git commit -m "msg"	Commit: Solves A. Saves everything and clears the letters.
git pull	Pull: Downloads updates from GitHub to your PC.
git push -u origin main	First Push: Sends code to GitHub for the first time.
git push	Regular Push: Sends your new saves to GitHub.

Navigation & File Management
Command	Detailed Explanation

ls	List: Shows every file and folder here.
cd ..	Back: Moves you out to the folder above.
pwd	Path: Shows the full address of where you are.
ni <filename>	New Item: Creates a new file. Appears as U.
rm <filename>	Remove: Deletes a file permanently.
cls	Clear: Wipes the terminal screen clean.

Git Corrections & Time Travel
Command	Detailed Explanation

q	Quit: Press this to exit logs or long lists.
git log --oneline	History: Lists past saves with their unique 7-character IDs.
git checkout .	Discard M: Resets file to last save. Turns M back to clean.
git rm --cached <file>	Un-Add: Moves a file from A back to U.
git commit --amend -m ""	Rename: Changes the text of your last save label.
git reset --soft HEAD~1	Undo Save: Deletes the save point. Files become A again.
git reset --hard HEAD~1	Nuclear Reset: Deletes the last save and the code. Permanent.
git reset --hard <ID>	Jump to ID: Teleports project back to a specific save ID.

Sidebar Icon Guide

    U — New file. Fix: git add .
    M — Changed file. Fix: git add .
    A — Prepared file. Fix: git commit -m "msg"